Nursing Home Database:

Project Overview:

This database contains the informations of a nursing home, where every patient is supervised by his/her doctor
and they are assigned in a certain cabin. And every cabin has a certain nurse.

Database Overview:

The database contains the following tables:

1. Doctor: This table contains id, name, degree, special field, visiting time, doctor's fee, contact, patient count and the account balance of 
           the doctors. Id is primary key. Contact is unique. Patient count increases for a doctor when a patient is inserted and the doctor is 
		   assigned for the patient.

2. Nurse: This table contains id, name, experience and salary of a nurse. Id is primary key. When a nurse is inserted her initial 
		  experinence becomes zero and an initial salary is inserted. But when experience increases, salary also increases.

3. Cabin: This table contains cabin_no, floor, cabin category, vacancy, cabin cost, assigned_nurse for the cabin.
		  Cabin_no is the primary key. Assigned_nurse is the foriegn key from the nurse table.

4. Patient: This table contains id, name, age, cabin, doctor's id, contact, birthday, admission_date, releasing_date of a patient.
			Id is the primary key. Age is calculated from the birthday and admission_date. Cabin and doctor's id is the foreign key from 
			cabin and doctor table accordingly.



Functionality and Design:

Triggers:
	
	1.Trigger's Name: "in_nurse"
	  Description: When a new nurse is inserted this trigger sets its intial experience = 0 and initial salary = 5000;

	2.Trigger's Name: "up_nurse"
	  Description: When the experience of a nurse increases, this trigger increases the salary of the nurse.

	3.Trigger's Name: "up_cabin"
	  Description: Every cabin has an assigned_nurse. If a nurse is deleted then this trigger assign another nurse in
	  			   that cabin.

	4.Trigger's Name: "count_pat"
	  Description: When a patient is inserted, this trigger increases the patient count of the assigned_doctor.

	5.Trigger's Name: "cabin_up"
	  Description: When a patient is admitted in a cabin, this trigger updates the vacancy of the cabin as "Booked"
	  			   and when the patient releases, this trigger updates the vacancy of the cabin as "Vacant".

	6.Trigger's Name: "age"
	  Description: This trigger calculate the age of a patient from his/her birthday and admission_date and updates the 
	  			   'age' column of the patient.

	7.Trigger's Name: "d_acc"
	  Description: This trigger calculates the spending days of a patient in the nursing home and check the assigned doctor's
	  			   per day fee. Then it calculates the doctor's bill and updates the doctor's account balance.



Functions and Procedures:

	1. Function name: "read"
	   Description: This function reads the data from a 'Nurse.csv' file, and inserts the data in the nurse table.

	2. Procedure name: "allPayment"
	   Description: This procedure calculates the cabin bill, doctor's bill and total bill for a patient.

	3. Function name: "getPatientCharge"   		
	   Description: This function call the "allPayment" procedure and writes the cabin bill, doctor's bill and total bill for 
					every released patient in a file.


Cursors:

	1.Cursor Name: "cur_doct"
	  Description: 	This cursor prints all informations about "Neuro Surgeon".

	2.Cursor Name: "cur_pat"
	  Description: This cursor prints patient's name with assigned doctor's name and assigned nurse's name.

	3.Cursor Name: "cur_pc"
	  Description: This cursor prints information of each doctor from every department whose patient count is maximum in that department. 

	4.Cursor Name: "cur_bill"
	  Description: This cursor prints cabin bill, doctor's bill and total bill for all released patient. 



Summary:

This database project was an attempt to represent a nursing home database. It was tried to cover all the features for a nursing home database. But in real life, this project should be included more features. But as a beginner of database system concepts I have tried to cover all basic things for this project in a small range.

